Why are we here?


Shared passion for experiences boating.


Sometimes I make a joke about this in the morning to get people pumped up, but I say “are you guys ready to make dreams come true today?”  We help businesses make money, we end up making money, and the end customer gets the boat of their dreams. We make dreams come true. 


Tricky. We’re here to facilitate the industry in terms of bringing content, products and services to consumers and facilitating the communication of that to consumers accurately. 


It’s the leisure part of it, it’s the escapism. The feeling of freedom by being on a boat. The endless opportunities. The lack of restriction.


I laugh becuase it’s two fold - one is the prestige of attaining the boat and achieving that dream. THe other is to escape reality.


Spending time with their families, fishing, sailing. Boat sales matter because the more new products that you get into the marketplace, the better the enjoyment the people have. I can tell you from personal experience that sailing on a 30 year old sailboat is not as fun as a brand new J-70. The technology gains have a direct impact on the user experience. 


I think we’re here to give people the memories of being with their family, their friends when they go boating. It’s giving people a sense of pride. Being on a boat is always enjoyable, and we are helping people live that reality.


Freedom to be in the world in a different environment.  Boat sales matter because they provide the means to the access to the value of boating. Freedom, etc. 


To unwind. Water in a lot of cultures is a calming sign. Being on a boat is just an extension of that. Outside of that, I boat to fish. 


it lets you disconnect from day to day life
connection with nature and the sea
freedom
challenge
Fun


To explore and have fun with friends and family.


We are here because boating is important. Millions of people enjoy as sport/lifestyle/way to escape. People choose as a way of life. 






What can we accomplish?


Introduce the boating lifestyle to boats and non-boaters alike regardless of budget and socioeconomic class.


I’d like to be able to bring the joy and passion and experiences that I’ve had, and translate that into experiencing that and enjoying that when maybe they haven’t had it before. 


We as an entire group need to make it accessible, available, to more consumers. Especially younger consumers. We need to keep the passion alive in what it means to be a sailor. Or a fisherman. We need to be specific with the individual groups. As a we, if you are a dealer for a fishing group and you are a fisherman, and as us as a facilitator around that, we need to have the focus around the right people and give them the opportunity to get on the water if they don’t have it. Where you are depends on why we are here. Why a dealer is here selling a certain type of boats in Norfolk is because people like to fish around here. 


I have imagine that our goal as the new DMM is to transition from the org selling tech to brokers to a company selling digital transformation in the recreational marine market. I’d like to think that the we is a digital transformation in a crusty old space. Instead of just being an internet provider, that would be my nutsell statement: digital transformation.


I believe that if I do my job with a customer, and he does his job with his customers, the customers have a better experience. The better job that I do helping his business grow, the more boats he’s going to sell, and the more people that will enjoy being on the water. 


I think we can get people who don’t even realize that they want to be in boating into boating. Whether that’s buy a boat, renting a boat, or just being a part of the boating community.


We can bring together all the boats, aspirations, narratives, and tangible assistance to people who are trying to make their way in this world. 




We can open that world to more people. Get people interested, get people understanding what it means to be out on the water. We can help more people get out there. 


more information available related to boats: prices, opinions, etc. 
more people can access the boating experience
create the right match between boat and boater
make the market grow worldwide


We can push ourselves to achieve goals we did not think were possible.  We can do this while challenging each other professionally and having fun at the same time.


I love the slogan getting the world on the water. IF we all contribute successfully then we will all have a successful supper




How should we connect with each other in order to accomplish this?


We can connect through our data to ensure that the right consumer is introduced to the right boat at the right time of the buying cycle. Data is the core of that connection. (Data means consumer telling us what they are interested in, what they want to do, what their likes are; the customer telling us this is what we do, these are our services, this is what we are good at, and we deliver the connection between the two.)


Life is all about relationships. In the end I think the only thing that really matters is the personal connections that we make. You can connect with a brand as well. It has to be something where we connect on every level of the business with every stakeholder, and building those relationships is what translates to success. 


That’s a great question and my mind is going to how do you access the folks who aren’t boat-showers for example. I don’t really have the answer but I have often felt that Boats Group having alignment with other folks who are doing digital in the marine space having brand identity would be good if that is something we were serious about. Folks like (company name) who are app-ifying the technology world, they are leading edge in terms of trying to be disruptive in their market. Being in that space might appeal to the demographic that isn’t necessarily drawn to boat shows. To be perfectly frank people I know might stop into a boat show but there’s not a lot there for us. There’s not a lot of bits that are interesting if you’re not buying something that’s a big ticket. I would say trying to engage with other aspects of the lifecycle of boating is how to abstract it.


I think it’s about relationships. Understanding what drives people to buy a boat, what drives people to want a boat. Getting to know people. Not just the dealers and brokers needs, but understanding what the data provides for us. It’s about understanding people.


Related articles. Content. We need to interconnect our content within this ecosystem, and we need to provide content that acts as outreach to others that lets them know about this ecosystem that we have. The content includes the boat listings themselves, not just the editorial content, the social media content, etc.


I guess I see our space as solving the problem of connecting the people who have the boats and people who need them. Our aspect is solving the problem of how they get together. How do we connect… technology. We are in a world driven by technology. Technology is the medium w are using to have that entire conversation. 


regular communication with buyers and sellers to help create an indispensable and delightful product
create sense of community


Collaboration needs to be at the heart of our culture.


Wit the end goal of getting people engaged we need to make it fun, easy to get engaged. Education of customer about products 




Why am I proud of what I do here?


I feel like I get to learn and have access to our customers business and find out what makes them each unique. Me and my team are trusted with making marketing goals that allow that customer to connect to the right consumer. We help a customer accomplish their business goals; we’re not just a vendor if we are doing our job.
I am proud because I think I take pride in being in this industry and in being able to help people. Me being able to go to someone, find an issue or find something that they need, and help them find a goal that they are working towards, that is important to me. 


Boating has always been a part of my life, and me being able to be a part of this as more than just a consumer is a really big deal to me. Boating is what I do. It’s a part of me. I honestly can’t imagine my life without it. I enjoy fishing, I enjoy hunting, I grew up going fishing with my dad. It’s been in my DNA since I was growing up, it was instilled in me. 


The first saltwater boat I bought, I found on Boat Trader and I bought it. That’s always there. More so than that, for me being able to really have a client who is really, really happy with me being able to provide a solution to issues or problems that they have, or me helping them reach the goal they are trying to get to, and then telling me how much I helped contribute to their success. 


Specifically to my job, I like it because all of our customers are trying to create their own entity in their own markets to get people on the water. With client websites, we are creating those opportunities. You know they are going after a specific customer so we are building them a specific website. Why I am proud to be a part of this business is because I love boats, I love boating, and I like to see people who can’t/won’t/haven’t done it get the opportunity to do so. I like the opportunity to say boats aren’t that expensive, lets see what we can do. I like asking people on to my boat. Hearing people say I haven’t been fishing in 5 yeras, alright come on lets do it.  Keeping the passion alive in it. I can talk to it from a business standpoint, and I like that as a consumer and a boater. 


From a DMM perspective pretty much anybody who is a boater knows the sites and frankly enjoys them despite their shortcomings. There’s a name recognition and appreciation for what we offer in the space so that’s cool. We as a part of boating in general… there’s certainly a tight knit community built around the sailing that I do. It almost becomes a lifestyle, a theme for a life over time. It goes beyond just sort of a hobby.


I’m proud to do what I do because the brands that I represent, in my heart I know they offer value to the people i sell things to. In my heart I believe that the work that I do every day makes boating a better experience. 


I am proud to be a part of the we because I think it’s a real genuine industry. It’s a genuine we. Everyone who is a part of it wants to be there, enjoys doing what they are doing, whether they are on a boat or not. I am proud to do what I do because you’re helping genuine people.  It’s authentic. It’s old school, I like being part of something that you can go off a handshake. 


I like people getting excited about boating. All my life I’ve seen people get a whiff of it and have it become a meaningful part of their lives. Most of my career was in magazines. Magazines still have a role but it continues to be smaller and smaller, and it does not reach the vast majority of people we can reach. That’s what’s exciting in the modern, connected digital age, we have a very central role to play. It’s a more populous role. Anybody can connect with our role. Almost anybody has access to the internet, and that means almost anybody can connect with this boating world that we offer. 


I like solving problems for people, that’s the core of what I do. Outside of that, I have always enjoyed helping people find leisure time. I think that’s an important aspect of people's lives. I used to call it contributing to the delinquency of hard workers. In all honesty, people need a break and I like to help get them there. 


I see continuous improvement 
Creating fulfilling jobs - great place to work
We help people buy and sell boats
We treat people well individually, both customers and employees, resulting in loyal customers and a committed team
Talking to satisfied customers and users makes us happy.


Our team has built and industry leading company.  This only happens based on the strong contributions of our team.  I am proud to work for a company that leverages technology to improve the shopping experience for our consumers which translates into more leads/customers for our broker/dealer partners.  We have a ton of room to innovate and I am excited about the opportunities to build on our industry leading position.


Because we have created an environment where people cn easily connect with things that they buy/research/information. Hit a nerve because no one else is providing. When something doesn’t work we hear about it bc they want to achieve the objective. People need us more than other industries bc of the suffer. 


What is the reason for our creation? Why did our business even start?


We were created to allow our customer base to reach customers and prospects en masse because the internet made the world flat, that created an opportunity for us to do so.


The creation of this business goes back to the route of connecting buyers and sellers. I have a feeling it started as more of a trading type of thing. Almost like craigslist, used products. Used boats. People didn’t have a way to preview a lot of used inventory without driving around to a lot of boat dealerships. That’s all you had. You could drive around to everyone in your area and that is the selection you can pick from. This just expanded that opportunity. When we went online, it opened it up to all of the boats for sale. 


YachtWorld is what it is because of the opportunity, which is selling boats online. That was due to timing, and it traditionally was done through magazines. It was a business opportunity. 


I suppose it was to create an online marketplace for connecting buyers and sellers online. Certainly on the YW side of things and the boats.com side of thing, that was a part of it. Boat Trader obviously wasn’t online.


I think our company started because the idea of technology was exploding many many years ago, and somebody thought if it works in cars, or it works in houses, it might as well work on boats. I don’t think that the public 15 years ago said I think it would be cool if you put my boat on the internet. I think someone said this internet thing is pretty interesting, I wonder if it would work in the boat space. 


To allow people to find what they are looking for-- to find boats. It expanded the boundaries of being able to find a boat. It’s no longer just your inner circle of friends who know someone who knows someone. We expanded the word of mouth. 


We get rid of the boundaries of shopping for your next boat, just like the boat helps you be rid of the boundaries of your life. 


With YachtWorld it was looking for a new way of reaching into this boating world of ours, and it was focused on brokerage boat sales. There’s the trader thread, the boats.com thread, and its been a converge of these threads. It was largely sales driven and it wouldn’t exist if it weren’t flowing, or if things came together to make it flow. It came together in 2010 which made something unique and exciting, it brought these different threads together and led to what we have today. 


At a space level we started because there was a need to increase the engagement between buyers and sellers. We started as a print company, and even through the print outlet we were trying to get people more exposed to the industry, exposed to the industry. You look at boats and people might think it's some great big thing that's outside of their price range, but the more they look they realize this is a lifestyle they can actually afford. 


Filled a market gap to connect boaters with sellers online, making the process much easier
Build a business


Not sure I remember the story from Ian, but flows into my response to the next question.


Visionary in the 90s boating market fragmented and people couldn’t get information. Providing information that wanted to invest in their spare time


What would you name our company and why?


Boating Marketplace


Isthereanotherwaytosellyourboat.com


This is hilarious because we have been trying to put a name on the website product and we’ve been talking about this.  What are we trying to be? Pleasure, escapism, digital, products, subscription services. Some kind of adjective regarding waterways, rivers, seas. Crickey. ALso they’ve got to have a specific point to them. They can’t just be like sky, water, because they exist. It has to be an action as well as a relatable adjective. 


I don’t have one. Call it banana. And gorillas like bananas. 


I would name it All Boats because that’s what we do.  I think our company should and could be more than it is. Yachtworld used to be broker centric and Boat Trader was dealer centric, but DMM needed to be marine industry centric. We’ve never pulled that off, we’ve never been all things to the marine industry. If I could think about something beyond All Boats I’d pick that, but that’s such an overarching snapshot of the whole industry. Maybe Marine Central.


I think I probably would name it boats.com because we already own the space and its a lot easier to type than dominionmarinemedia.com. It's probably our flagship site even though it has the least traffic and it's the least lucrative. It conveys a lot more than trading boats or expensive yachts. 


The Boat Marketplace
The Boat Experts
All About Boats
Everything Boats
We are the place to come for any information about boats but we do not produce or sell them


Something that is clearly related to boats and boating.  The industry we serve needs to be clear from a consumer and a broker/dealer perspective.


Who are the founders and what are their stories?


I don’t know the background of how Jessica started it, but when I ask about their interactions with her, I hear that they were positive, honest, upbeat, customer-first thinking. The story of the founding of Boat Trader was about allowing people to see what inventory was across the river. Advent of the internet changed all of that, allowed you to see what was happening everywhere. It connected a buyer to a seller in the easiest format possible. 


I don’t know the founders, but I would assume they either came from the industry and they either saw something they could capitalize on or something they could expand in this space. THey saw they needed more customers, how do we get more? The idea could have come from that. Or it could have come from another industry that was similar. Real estate, or cars, or whatever. No one was doing this for boats.


Considering when it happened and when they all came about, I think it was embracing the newer technologies to do what they have already done. The founders were all boating people. They worked selling boats, they’ve just been boaty people. And for whatever reason, they collaborated saying alright this internet thing exists, let's make it work. I think they did it one because of a business opportunity, but I think predominantly they like the industry, they like boating, and it's a nice industry to be in. Better than looking at pictures of RVs or lawnmowers. 


I know some of Ian’s story but not much of any other. Boating enthusiasts who recognized a gap in the offering, as it pertains to accurate data on the price of sold boats. Any easy marketplace to list and buy your boat


Those stories were part-tech, part-boater, part-financeer. If I think back to the beginning of boats.com, I think about the tech guy, the finance guy, and the boat guy, I think of that as the core of the business. The people more than the boats. 


I think it's built on the passion for boating, entrepreneurial spirit, and seeing the opportunity, and using the knowledge of the industry to capitalize on that industry. 


In a simple sense they were innovative, determined, wouldn’t take no for an answer. They made things happen against the odds. I’m thinking about some of the early boats.com people… Jessica, Bob. I don’t know what the early years of Boat Trader were like so I can’t speak to that. 


I think they love boating and sailing. I think they picked the best route to get there. 
All people from the boat business not the internet. We all had jobs that involved building/buying/selling/distributing boats. Internet arrived and created a way to share information that wasn’t available before. Encourage industry into the ways of the internet to find a service for what they had. Connecting the product to the person that wanted to buy it. 
Imaginative/Resilient/Boating Nuts
Hard to buy one, wanted to achieve this 


The CDB founder is a passionate boater
The original CDB owners are passionate about internet entrepreneurship


I only know of one of the founders.  I would highlight the passion for boating and wanting to be involved in the industry the love.




What’s a day like in the office?


No such thing as a typical day working here. Challenging; opportunistic; maddening; frustrating; fast-paced; fun some days. 


It’s actually really fun. We have a really fun environment. I am happy to come in the mornings. I am happy to get to work. Its fast-paced, I can make money doing it, and everyone in the office has got a pretty good repoire. It’s not like everyone has to be quiet and sit down. As funny as it sounds, it’s like being with a group of your closest friends.


Varied. A lot of the day in the office is playing politican to get things moving as opposed to a focused culture of here is what we are all focused on. That’s the bit that is lacking and it would make the biggest difference in this business. So the office is lots and lots of work, but not fully understanding the full perspective of where we are going with it. 


I would say that we have a highly collaborative environment where we are trying to bring together different worldviews from technology, AM, marketing, and overcome those different worldviews to bring the best to light in technology solutions. 


I don’t have a good handle on the culture because I do work remotely. But a day in the office for me means that I know if I am sitting in front of a customer, and I know what his needs, wants, problems are, that is a good day. I enjoy listening to our customers, identifying their problems, and matching our solutions to them. 


Series of narratives and conversations about how to do what we do better. Extend reach as a business and advocate for boat ownership. Making our presence better known and encouraging more consumers/customers to engage with us. Improving the thing we do. 




A typical day in the office for me is working with smart people. I do feel like it’s about good friends. Its back to being all about relationships for me. 


What’s cool about our company is I get to connect with people on two continents, and work closely with people in different countries, and form strong bonds with them, and professional ones. We have things come up all the time while we’re doing our regular work week in, week out, we have to deal with ideas and surprises, etc. that stretch us. Right now we are about to do this video during this very challenging awards ceremony that’s involving Spanish, English, American folks. We are probably putting in way too much time on this video but the point is that we can… because you have the relationships with people, we can deal with the stuff that could have been difficult, that could very easily break down. That’s my biggest concern about our company going forward that we are not focusing on that, or that we may not be. Relationships count, they count when you are working with so many different people in different timezones. The opportunity we have is to expand on that and to develop it.




I don’t spend a whole lot of time outside of marketing and development. I think we all have a great sense of humor and enjoy each others company even when we are angry with each other. That’s proven by the fake christmas party and how many people showed up. We have a good time. We make a meaningful contribution to the market although I think it could be better. 


People arrive at different times in the morning and leaves at different times in the evening (flexibility)
Each person works based on objectives
A lot of teamwork and communication between departments
It’s an informal environment with jokes and teasing to lighten the load of work
Much of the team eats together at lunchtime
Excitement about results (sales, leads, traffic)


It's much different than I would like it to be.  I don’t think we have enough collaboration.  I don’t think we have enough fun.  There is too much sense of hierarchy (may just be the office space and remnants of DE.  


What are one or two things that most people probably don’t know about the company?


That we actually do take their feedback seriously and we do work really hard to address their feedback. When people ask that we fix something, we roll up our sleeves and address the problem.


I don’t think people realize how small we actually are. They think of us as this gigantic corporate entity. People have no idea that behind the scenes in respect to other corporations, we’re relatively small. Especially with us being in this building… we’re actually just one little floor. 


One thing that comes up a lot is that people think we sell boats. We do not sell boats. We help facilitate the sale of boats for our customers. The second is that we are global.  Our customers may but our consumers may not now in the back end of things how ingrained we are in the industry, in terms of data, in terms of the conversations we have with associations and OEMs in the industry. I don’t think we portray that we are ingrained all the way around the business and the industry. We do talk to the associations that try to do the deals between the OEMs and the dealers, we are international, we have all the languages. We are not just an autotrader. We are quite a lot more. We drive a lot of content, we try and promote the industry .


We are all very good looking people
They don’t know how much we can do for them. Unaware of the value that we provide. Unaware that we are a global business. Unaware that we treat them fairly even though we have a market position that says that we don’t have to. 


Technology center is in Vancouver. Even people in Vancouver don’t know that it’s in their backyard. I was pretty surprised when I realized they were 3 blocks from my house. I suspect people don’t know how large, how geographically distributed we are. An office in Italy, in Barcelona, developers in Costa Rica and Ukraine. I don’t think folks know that, I don’t think folks know that we operate on a technology standard, not an office of people. We probably have thousands of video conferences a week. That is probably something that would not be expected by the vast majority of folks who only see Boat Trader as our face.


People have no idea of the value we bring to them. They pay their invoice every month and they get pissed off about it. They don’t really understand the value we bring to them. They also don’t know how committed we are to the business.  They think this is just a job for us, and maybe for some people it is, but if I get cut I bleed YachtWorld, Boat Trader, and boats.com.


That many of us do know the industry, and that we actually really do care. 


They don’t realize that this year during the peak season, our content will be read by more than 1 million people. It’s different from a magazine because they are not getting a magazine. But we are touching a million people interested in boats. That’s probably my favorite.  It’s blown away what magazines do in that sense. 


Maybe people don’t know BT, BC, and YW are owned by the same group. Maybe they don’t know the relationships we have we larger OEMs. Casual boat shoppers may not know how much time we spend at boat shows putting on universities and stuff. We spend as much time trying to educate as we do trying to get paid. 


How many people work hard here to keep this running well


Not sure if people understand our market leading position.  Not sure if people understand how effective we are in providing high quality leaders for our broker/dealer partners.



If your company were a pizza topping what would it be and why?


We would be the pepperoni it’s spicy and it doesn’t always agree with you. 


Spicy italian sausage. Because it looks like ground beef but when you bite into it, there’s so much more to it. 


I would actually say we would be the cheese because we’re on everything. 


An everything pizza. Self explanatory.


BBQ chicken. The reason is because I have never liked barbeque chicken on top of my pizza and I always want it to be pepperoni, and I don’t like the direction we’re going today.


The sauce, because you can make it however you want. You can get it chunky, you can get it thin, you can add water, you can add extra spices, you can remove spices. You can make it how you want it to be. 


Hawaiian. Sweet, salty and sour. 


The sauce. Everybody needs it and they aren’t sure why they need it but that’s what makes the pizza. 


Cheese - keeps it all together, is essential for a good pizza


Cheese.  We are solid, conservative and commonly used.


It would be a 4 cheese (quattro formaggi) bc it is very popular it is always hard to dislike. Easy for the pizza guy to make it. Everyone has heard of it. 




What animal best describes our company?


An elephant. We are slow moving. Scared of a mouse.  Hard to change direction. But once we get our shit going, look out, because when you see it in action… it is something. 


Seagull or a duck. We have boats that float so they have to be in the water and float. We can’t be a fish because if a fish floats it’s dead. Or we could be a dolphin. Everybody likes dolphins. I mean there’s no one that hates dolphins. Seagulls and ducks float. They are always around water. And the water is essential to those birds lives. 


Gorilla - Protection and looking after each other. 
The cliche would be the 300 pound gorilla. Actually we should be a dolphin. To the industry we should be a dolphin and not a shark. If you think about the two things we do, there is no fear involved with a dolphin. There is engagement with a dolphin. THere is a great TV show called flipper. People train dolphins, talk to them, play with them. With a shark… you just don’t want to. I’m not sure we are a shark, more like a really big whale. You’re not afraid of it… but you should be. 


A dog. Fun loving. Loyal. I am sure our customers wouldn’t always see it that way.


Elephant. I think that because I hear from people all the time “you guys got everybody by the balls”. I’ve heard 800 pound gorilla, 800 pound elephant. Customers have this perception of us that we are this big behemoth and we’re just here to collect the revenue.  I think of an elephant in that way. 


A sloth. I don’t need to give a reason about that.


Hydra. Mythical creature with multiple heads. 


My first thought was a seagull but they are incredibly annoying. Maybe an albatross? A larger seabird of some kind that is not annoying. 


Dolphin - likeable, quick, agile, happy, playful, clever, lives in the sea, social


We are a cross between and Koala Bear and a Gorrilla.  We are nice and comfortable internally, but our broker dealer partners see us in the wrong light in terms of the value we create within the industry.


What other things do you want to add?
It needs to be much like our purpose in the industry. We have all of these different facets, just like the industry, but we need to stop working in silos and be cohesive. The only way for us to be there is for our direction, our motto, our name, our strategic plan for more than a year but for three years should be focused. If we are making a decision, it should be “is this in line with our clear strategic direction and culture?” if not, we shouldn’t do it. And you shouldn’t need to ask your manager to know that. 


We are the world's largest Marine Industry Advertising and Technology company.  We focus on helping our customers sell their boats (Goods/services?) through a consultive approach by linking our intense knowledge of the industry with the sheer power of our audience.  Stressing unparallelled value to our customers, we offer the visitor of our portals the most efficient knowledge base of information available today.


Data, Trend analysis, technology and the ability to see into the future allows our customers to put their boats in the market, not on the market.


I want to grow, and I want to do it in a way that our customers want to work with us. I want to say I need $5k more from you next year because you just told me that you have a couple of goals you want to accomplish, and the customer to say “you’ve got it, just tell me what to do”.  I want people to want to do business with us, not have to do business with us.


I would like for this corporate narrative to make people excited about doing their job, and motivated to do their job. To feel good about what they do and care about what they do. Not be ok with submitting a featured boat with the mast cut off. If you worked for Nordstrom you would never put a high heel on the cover with a stem that is broken.  I hope it begins to recruit people who do want to do a good job and care about putting half a boat on the homepage. 


Our job is to help people find a boat and help people sell a boat. I think it still comes down to that.


Recognition that we are a technology company. We are not outdated. We understand the needs of the current market. 


+ Focus on product innovation - being cutting edge in technology and offering the best service in the nautical industry
People focus, both internally and with customers and users


I struggled with some of these responses because I would prefer to understand where we are now and then focus on what we will strive to become.


This is the most creative that I have been in weeks.